# cdceprog #

This is a very quick hack for programming a TI CDCE913/925 PLL chip with
settings generated by TI's ClockPro software on a Linux system.

## Usage ##

    cdceprog.py settings.hex

The settings.hex file must be generated using the `File->Save Intel Hex
File` menu entry of ClockPro. The script assumes that the PLL is
connected to I2C bus 1 and uses its default address. An attempt to
change the I2C address of the PLL will be overriden by the script
because that was easier to implement. After programming, the settings
are committed to the chip's EEPROM.

You do not need to specify if the file is meant for a CDCE913 or 925,
the script will automatically determine this based on the size of the
data found in the .hex file.

## Raspberry Pi notes ##

This script was written to program a [Dual Frequency
Oscillator](http://nfggames.com/forum2/index.php?topic=5744.0)
connected to a Raspberry Pi. It assumes that you do not have one of
the extremely ancient Raspberry Pi boards that had I2C bus 0 on the
GPIO header - if you do, change the line `bus = smbus.SMBus(1)` to
`bus = smbus.SMBus(0)` in `cdceprog.py`.

You must be running Raspbian on your Pi and install the additional
package `python-smbus` for the script to work. Since accessing the I2C
bus directly usually requires root privileges, you will likely want to
run the script with sudo, e.g. `sudo ./cdceprog.py settings.hex`.

To connect the DFO to the Raspberry Pi, check the nice overview of the
GPIO connector [here](http://pi.gadgetoid.com/pinout). The programming
pins on the side of the DFO must be connected as follows:

* DFO `SDA` to RasPi pin 3
* DFO `SCL` to RasPi pin 5
* DFO `GND` to RasPi pin 6

Additionally, you need to decide how to power the DFO board while it
is being programmed. If the board has already been installed in the
target system, just turn on the target system.

If the DFO has not been installed in the target system yet, you can
power it from the Raspberry Pi. To do this, you must first determine
if your DFO is a 5V or 3.3V version. If it is a 5V version, connect
the DFO pin `+5V` to pin 2 of the Raspberry Pi pin 2. If your DFO is a
3.3V version, connect the pin marked `3.3V` to Raspberry Pi pin 1
instead. In either case, *DO NOT* make this connection if the DFO is
powered from a target system!

## License ##

2-clause BSD:

Copyright (C) 2015-2017, Ingo Korb <ingo@akana.de>
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
